Update nextjs tutorial (#260)
temporalio/temporal-learning: docs/tutorials/typescript/nextjs/index.md

---
id: build-one-click-order-app-nextjs
title: Build a one-click order application with TypeScript and Next.js
sidebar_position: 2
keywords: [TypeScript, temporal, sdk, tutorial, NextJS]
tags:
  - TypeScript
last_update:
  date: 2024-06-25
description: Build a One-Click Buy application with Next.js and integrate Temporal using Next.js API routes to create a durable order processing backend.
image: /img/temporal-logo-twitter-card.png
repository: https://github.com/temporalio/nextjs-temporal-one-click-template/
---

![Temporal TypeScript SDK](/img/sdk_banners/banner_typescript.png)

### Introduction

When you're building an e-commerce application, you want to give customers a great user experience.
You also need to make sure that any calls to external services, like databases, payment gateways, and other tools, are reliable.

> You can deliver a great experience across the stack by integrating a Temporal Workflow with Next.js.

Reviewer: If we are assuming no Temporal knowledge of the reader, I would suggest a quick sentence as to why Temporal will deliver a great experience like you mention. How about something like:

"You can deliver a great experience across the stack by integrating a Temporal Workflow with Next.js. Temporal provides fault tolerance and ensures that long-running processes and background tasks complete successfully, even in the event of failures, making it ideal for critical business operations."

## Create your project

You'll use the Next.js project generator to create a basic Next.js application.
Then you'll configure dependencies for the project and set up a Temporal project within the Next.js application.

Create a new Next.js project with the `create-next-app` tool. Call the project `nextjs-temporal`:

```command
npx create-next-app@latest nextjs-temporal
```

The project generator will prompt you with several questions. Accept the default values for each option.
When the project generator completes, and the dependencies install, switch to the new project's root directory:

```command
cd nextjs-temporal
```

Install the `@tsconfig/node20` package as a developer dependency, as you'll use it as the foundation for a Temporal-specific `tsconfig` file you'll keep separate from the one generated by the Next.js project generator:

```command
npm install --save-dev @tsconfig/node20
```

Next, install [Nodemon](https://nodemon.io/) which you'll use to watch your files for changes and reload Temporal Workers:

```command

> npm install --save-dev @tsconfig/node20

Reviewer: This is the same step as line 56.

Correction: npm install --save-dev nodemon

```json
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "next lint"
  },
```

Change the scripts so you can build and run your Next.js application and your Temporal Workers at the same time:

```json
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "npm-run-all -l build:temporal --parallel dev:temporal dev:next start:worker",
    "dev:next": "next dev",
    "dev:temporal": "tsc --build --watch ./temporal/tsconfig.json",
    "build:next": "next build",
    "build:temporal": "tsc --build ./temporal/tsconfig.json",
    "start:worker": "nodemon ./temporal/lib/worker",
    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "eslint ."
  },
```

These scripts let you run the following steps with a single `npm run dev` command:

- build Temporal once.
- start Next.js locally.
- start a Temporal Worker.
- rebuild Temporal files when they change.

With your project configured, you can write your Temporal Workflows and Activities.

## Define the business logic using Temporal

You'll use Temporal to power a one-click ordering process.
You'll use a Temporal Workflow to represent each order.

> That Workflow will orchestrates one or more Activities.

Reviewer: I think it's important to hone in on this a bit especially for Temporal beginners. Maybe something like:

That Workflow will orchestrates one or more Activities, meaning that the Workflow will manage the state and sequence of Activities, which can involve retries, handling failures, and managing timeouts.

Author: Reworked to reduce some duplication while keeping the introduction and "signpost" intact.

[Workflows](https://docs.temporal.io/workflows) define the overall flow of your business process.
Conceptually, a Workflow is a sequence of steps written in your programming language.

Workflows orchestrate [Activities](https://docs.temporal.io/activities), which is how you interact with the outside world in Temporal.

> You use Activities to make API requests, access the filesystem, or perform other non-deterministic operations.

Reviewer: 1. I would remove "Workflows orchestrate Activities" here or line 151, because you just mentioned "Workflows orchestrate Activities" very quickly after the first mention.
2. I would personally move lines 153-157 to above 150-151. This is because you mention that the Workflow orchestrates the Activities before the user knows what a Workflow/Activity is specifically. So like this:

[Workflows](https://docs.temporal.io/workflows) define the overall flow of your business process.
Conceptually, a Workflow is a sequence of steps written in your programming language. Workflows orchestrate [Activities](https://docs.temporal.io/activities), which is how you interact with the outside world in Temporal.
You use Activities to make API requests, access the filesystem, or perform other non-deterministic operations.

The Workflow you'll create in this tutorial will have a single Activity, `purchase`.

Create the file `temporal/src/activities.ts`:

```command
touch temporal/src/activities.ts
```

Inside of `temporal/src/activities.ts`, add the following code to define the `purchase` function:

<!--SNIPSTART typescript-next-oneclick-activities -->
[temporal/src/activities.ts](https://github.com/temporalio/nextjs-temporal-one-click-template/blob/next-v2/temporal/src/activities.ts)
```ts
import { Context } from '@temporalio/activity';

export async function purchase(id: string): Promise<string> {
  console.log(`Purchased ${id}!`);

>   return Context.current().info.activityId;

Reviewer: Can just do

```ts
import { activityInfo } from '@temporalio/activity';

export async function purchase(id: string): Promise<string> {
      console.log(`Purchased ${id}!`);
       return activityInfo().activityId;
  }
  ```

}
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

In a real application, this function would interact with a payment API and attempt to make a payment.
For this tutorial, the function prints a message to the console and returns the ID of the Activity.

> Now define the `order` Workflow that calls this Activity.

Reviewer: ```sugestion
Now define the `OneClickBuy` Workflow that calls this Activity.
```

Reviewer: or `oneClickBuy` to keep camel case

Create the file `temporal/src/workflows.ts`:

```command
touch temporal/src/workflows.ts
```

Add the following code to `temporal/src/workflows.ts` to define the Workflow:

<!--SNIPSTART typescript-next-oneclick-workflows -->
[temporal/src/workflows.ts](https://github.com/temporalio/nextjs-temporal-one-click-template/blob/next-v2/temporal/src/workflows.ts)
```ts
import { proxyActivities, sleep } from '@temporalio/workflow';
import type * as activities from './activities';

const { purchase } = proxyActivities<typeof activities>({
  startToCloseTimeout: '1 minute',
});

> export async function OneClickBuy(id: string): Promise<string> {

Reviewer: Should we call this `oneClickBuy` and use camel case to match ts naming convention?

  const result = await purchase(id); // calling the activity
  await sleep('10 seconds'); // sleep to simulate a longer response.
  console.log(`Activity ID: ${result} executed!`);
  return result;
}
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

Workflows must be deterministic, and you perform non-deterministic work in Activities.

> The TypeScript SDK bundles Workflow code and runs it inside a [deterministic sandbox](https://docs.temporal.io/typescript/determinism).

Reviewer: Could use a quick sentence describing what the deterministic sandbox is without just externally directing bc people might get swayed from the page

> The TypeScript SDK bundles Workflow code and runs it inside a [deterministic sandbox](https://docs.temporal.io/typescript/determinism).

Reviewer: This link does not exist. How about this:

https://docs.temporal.io/develop/typescript/core-application#workflow-logic-requirements

[temporal/src/worker.ts](https://github.com/temporalio/nextjs-temporal-one-click-template/blob/next-v2/temporal/src/worker.ts)
```ts
import { NativeConnection, Worker } from '@temporalio/worker';
import * as activities from './activities';
import { TASK_QUEUE_NAME } from './shared';

run().catch((err) => console.log(err));

async function run() {
  const connection = await NativeConnection.connect({
    address: 'localhost:7233',
    // In production, pass options to configure TLS and other settings.
  });
  try {
    const worker = await Worker.create({
      connection,
      workflowsPath: require.resolve('./workflows'),
      activities,
      taskQueue: TASK_QUEUE_NAME
    });
    await worker.run();
  } finally {
    connection.close();
  }
}
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

When the Worker finds [Workflow Tasks](https://docs.temporal.io/workers#workflow-task) or [Activity Tasks](https://docs.temporal.io/workers#activity-task) for the Workflows and Activities it hosts, it executes them.

Run your Worker with the following command to make sure that everything builds and there are no errors:

```command
npm run build:temporal && npm run start:worker`
```

> The Worker runs, but it won't have any tasks to perform because you haven't started a Workflow yet. Stop the Worker with `CTRL+C`.

Reviewer: Do we need to tell them to stop the worker if we are using nodemon?

  }

  await getTemporalClient().workflow.start(OneClickBuy, {
    taskQueue: TASK_QUEUE_NAME,
    workflowId: transactionId,
    args: [itemId],
  });

  return Response.json({ ok: true });
}
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

Make sure you've saved all your changes.

Now start Next.js and the Temporal Worker using the `npm run dev` script you defined:

```command
npm run dev
```

In another terminal window, use the `curl` command to make a request to the API endpoint, which starts the Temporal Workflow:

```command
curl -d '{"itemId":"1", "transactionId":"abc123"}' \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/startBuy
```

The terminal that's running your application and Temporal Worker will print `Purchased 1`:

```output
[dev:next    ]  POST /api/startBuy 200 in 16ms
[start:worker] Purchased 1!
```

Now that you know the API works, you can build the user interface.

## Build the front-end interface

You can call your Next.js API with `curl`, but that's not the idea user interface.
You'll use React components with Next.js to make a request to the API you just created to create the one-click buy experience.

> To call the API Route from the Next.js frontend, you'll use the `fetch` API to make a request o the `/api/startbuy` method using a similar payload when you click a button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To call the API Route from the Next.js frontend, you'll use the `fetch` API to make a request to the `/api/startbuy` method using a similar payload when you click a button.
```

import { v4 as uuid4 } from 'uuid';
import 'react-toastify/dist/ReactToastify.css';
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

Next, define a TypeScript Interface for the Product's properties, a Type to define states for the purchase, and a collection of Products:

<!--SNIPSTART typescript-next-oneclick-page-vars -->
[app/page.tsx](https://github.com/temporalio/nextjs-temporal-one-click-template/blob/next-v2/app/page.tsx)
```tsx

interface ProductProps {
  product: {
    id: number;
    name: string;
    price: string;
  };
}

const products = [
  {
    id: 1,
    name: 'PDF Book',
    price: '$49',
  },
  {
    id: 2,
    name: 'Kindle Book',
    price: '$49',
  },
];

type ITEMSTATE = 'NEW' |  'ORDERED' | 'ERROR';
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

In a production application, your products would come from another part of your application, such as a database or a Shopify store.

Next, define a `Product` component with the following code:

<!--SNIPSTART typescript-next-oneclick-page-product -->
[app/page.tsx](https://github.com/temporalio/nextjs-temporal-one-click-template/blob/next-v2/app/page.tsx)
```tsx
const Product: React.FC<ProductProps> = ({ product }) => {
  const itemId = product.id;

>   const [state, setState] = React.useState<ITEMSTATE>('NEW');

Reviewer: Slight nit but can just import useState, useRef, useCallback if you wanted to, but nbd at all. IE:

```
import React, { useState, useRef  } from 'react';

const [state, setState] = useState<ITEMSTATE>('NEW');
```

  const stateRef = React.useRef<ITEMSTATE>();

>   stateRef.current = state;

Reviewer: Don't think you need lines 459-560

Author: Yea I do because that's the entire component.

In this application, you'd change `temporal/src/worker.ts` to add certificate information:

```ts
const connection = await NativeConnection.connect({
  address,
  tls: {
    clientCertPair: {
      crt: fs.readFileSync(clientCertPath),
      key: fs.readFileSync(clientKeyPath),
    },
  },
});
```

Then you'd update the `makeClient` function in `temporal/src/client.ts` to include the same keys:

```ts
function makeClient(): Client {
  const connection = Connection.lazy({
    address: 'localhost:7233',
    tls: {
      clientCertPair: {
        crt: fs.readFileSync(clientCertPath),
        key: fs.readFileSync(clientKeyPath),
      },
    },
  });
  return new Client({ connection });
}
```

Restart your application to establish the connections to the new Temporal Service.

## Conclusion

At this point, you have a working full stack example of a Temporal Workflow running inside your Next.js app, and the beginnings of an order processing system.
From here you can add more Activities to the Workflow, or use this project as the basis for a different kind of application that needs long-running processes.

> You can also explore adding [Signals](https://docs.temporal.io/dev-guide/typescript/features//#signals) or  [Queries](https://docs.temporal.io/dev-guide/typescript/features//#queries) to your Workflow and map those to new API routes.

Reviewer: We can quickly explain what signals and queries are in a sentence without encouraging click away from the page. How about:

"Temporal also allows you to add [Signals](https://docs.temporal.io/dev-guide/typescript/features//#signals) to your code to to send asynchronous notifications to running Workflows. You can also add [Queries](https://docs.temporal.io/dev-guide/typescript/features//#queries) to provide the user the ability to check the state of a Workflow at any point during its execution without affecting the Workflow's state. You can explore adding Signals and Queries to your Workflow and map those to new API routes."

keywords: [TypeScript, temporal, sdk, tutorial, NextJS]
tags: [TypeScript, SDK]
last_update:
  date: 2024-06-04
title: Build a full-stack one-click order app with Next.js and Temporal
description: Build a One-Click Buy application with Next.js and integrate Temporal using Next.js API routes to create a durable order processing backend.
image: /img/temporal-logo-twitter-card.png
---

![Temporal TypeScript SDK](/img/sdk_banners/banner_typescript.png)

### Introduction

> When you're building an e-commerce application, you want to provide customers withj a great user experience. You alsoneed to ensure that any calls to external services, like databases, payment gateways, and other tools, are reliable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you're building an e-commerce application, you want to provide customers with a great user experience. You also need to ensure that any calls to external services, like databases, payment gateways, and other tools, are reliable.
```

    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "next lint"
  },
```

Change the scripts so you can build and run your Next.js application and your Temporal Workers at the same time:

```json
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "npm-run-all -l build:temporal --parallel dev:temporal dev:next start:worker",
    "dev:next": "next dev",
    "dev:temporal": "tsc --build --watch ./temporal/tsconfig.json",
    "build:next": "next build",
    "build:temporal": "tsc --build ./temporal/tsconfig.json",
    "start:worker": "nodemon ./temporal/lib/worker",
    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "eslint ."
  },
```

These scripts let you run the following steps with a single `npm run dev` command:

- build Temporal once.
- start Next.js locally.
- start a Temporal Worker.
- rebuild Temporal files when they change.

With your project configured, you can write your Temporal Workflows and Activities.

## Define the business logic using Temporal

You'll use Temporal to power a one-click ordering process.
Each order will be represented by a Temporal Workflow, which orchestrates one or more Activities.

[Activities](https://docs.temporal.io/activities) are how you interact with the outside world in Temporal.

> You use them to make API requests, access the filesystem, or perform other non-deterministic operations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You use them to make API requests, access the file system, or perform other non-deterministic operations.
````

  return Context.current().info.activityId;
}
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

In a real application, this function would interact with a payment API and attempt to make a payment.
For this tutorial, the function prints a message to the console and returns the ID of the Activity.

Now define the `order` Workflow that calls this Activity.
Create the file `temporal/src/workflows.ts`:

```command
touch temporal/src/workflows.ts
```

Add the following code to `temporal/src/workflows.ts` to define the Workflow:

<!--SNIPSTART typescript-next-oneclick-workflows -->
[temporal/src/workflows.ts](https://github.com/temporalio/nextjs-temporal-one-click-template/blob/next-v2/temporal/src/workflows.ts)
```ts
import { proxyActivities, sleep } from '@temporalio/workflow';
import type * as activities from './activities';

const { purchase } = proxyActivities<typeof activities>({
  startToCloseTimeout: '1 minute',
});

export async function OneClickBuy(id: string): Promise<string> {
  const result = await purchase(id); // calling the activity
  await sleep('10 seconds'); // sleep to simulate a longer response.
  console.log(`Activity ID: ${result} executed!`);
  return result;
}
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

> Workflow code is bundled and run inside a [deterministic v8 isolate](https://docs.temporal.io/typescript/determinism) so you can persist and replay every state change.

Reviewer 3: This links directs to the typescript feature guide main page now.

          ))}
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  );
};
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

Finally, add the `Home` component to define the overall header and render the product list:

<!--SNIPSTART typescript-next-oneclick-page-home -->
[app/page.tsx](https://github.com/temporalio/nextjs-temporal-one-click-template/blob/next-v2/app/page.tsx)
```tsx
const Home: React.FC = () => {
  return (
    <div className="pt-8 pb-80 sm:pt-12 sm:pb-40 lg:pt-24 lg:pb-48">
      <div className="relative max-w-7xl mx-auto px-4 sm:px-6 lg:px-8 sm:static">
        <Head>
          <title>Temporal + Next.js Example</title>
          <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" />
        </Head>
        <header className="relative overflow-hidden">
          <div className="sm:max-w-lg">
            <h1 className="text-4xl font font-extrabold tracking-tight text-gray-900 sm:text-6xl">
              Temporal.io + Next.js One Click Purchase Demo
            </h1>
            <p className="mt-4 text-xl text-gray-500">
              Click on the item to buy it now.
            </p>
          </div>
        </header>
        <ProductList />
      </div>
    </div>
  );
};

export default Home;
```
<!--SNIPEND-->

> Visit `http://localhost:3000` in your browser and you'll see two products. Click their buttons and you'll execute the Temporal Workflows.

Reviewer 3: not sure if `http://localhost:3000` should be a link or not

Author: I think no, but I'm open to revisiting this on a larger scale as part of style. There are benefits for sure.
